README.md, before:

# Bulk Property Sorter

A VS Code extension that provides intelligent property sorting for TypeScript, JavaScript, CSS, SCSS, SASS, LESS, JSON, YAML, and Go files while preserving comments, formatting, and code structure.

## Features

- **Multi-language Support**: Sort properties in TypeScript/JavaScript interfaces, object literals, CSS rules, JSON objects, YAML documents, and Go structs
- **Smart Comment Preservation**: Maintains inline and block comments with their associated properties
- **Recursive Nested Sorting**: Sort properties in nested object declarations and CSS rules (configurable)
- **Spread Syntax Support**: Preserve object spread syntax (`...obj`) properties during sorting
- **Semicolon Preservation**: Maintains original trailing punctuation style (semicolons, commas, or none) during sorting
- **Vendor Prefix Handling**: Intelligent grouping of CSS vendor-prefixed properties
- **Go Struct Tag Preservation**: Maintains complex Go struct tags exactly as written
- **YAML-Specific Features**: Multi-document support, anchor/alias preservation, custom key ordering for Kubernetes/Docker Compose
- **Format-aware Processing**: Respects different file formats (CSS, SCSS, SASS indented syntax, LESS, YAML)
- **Configurable Sorting Options**: Extensive customization for different languages and use cases

## Installation

1. Open VS Code, Cursor, or any other editor that supports VS Code extensions
2. Go to Extensions (Ctrl+Shift+X)
3. Search for "Bulk Property Sorter"
4. Click Install
5. ???
6. Profit!

## Usage

1. Open a supported file type (TypeScript, JavaScript, CSS, SCSS, SASS, LESS, JSON, YAML, or Go)
2. Either:
   - Select specific text to sort just that selection
   - Place cursor anywhere to sort the entire file
3. Use one of these methods:
   - Press `Ctrl+[` (or `Cmd+[` on Mac) for ascending sort
   - Press `Ctrl+Shift+[` (or `Cmd+Shift+[` on Mac) for descending sort
   - Right-click and select "Sort Properties" from the context menu (only appears for supported file types)
   - Open Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P`) and search for "Sort Properties"

## Requirements

- VS Code, Cursor, or any other editor that supports VS Code extensions
- Files must be in a supported language (TypeScript, JavaScript, CSS, SCSS, SASS, LESS, JSON, YAML, Go)

## Detailed Architecture Overview

See [docs/bulk-property-sorter.md](docs/bulk-property-sorter.md) for detailed architectural diagrams and information.

## Examples

### TypeScript/JavaScript

**Basic Interface Sorting:**
```typescript
// Before
interface User {
    name: string;
    age: number;
    email: string;
}

// After
interface User {
    age: number;
    email: string;
    name: string;
}
```

**Comment Preservation:**
```typescript
// Before
interface User {
    // User's full name
    name: string;
    age: number;
    /**
     * Contact email address
     */
    email: string;
}

// After
interface User {
    age: number;
    /**
     * Contact email address
     */
    email: string;
    // User's full name
    name: string;
}
```

**Semicolon Preservation** - maintains original trailing punctuation style:
```typescript
// Before - mixed punctuation styles
interface Config {
    theme: string;
    version: number
    enabled: boolean;
}

// After - original punctuation preserved during sorting
interface Config {
    enabled: boolean;
    theme: string;
    version: number
}
```

**Object Literals with Spread Syntax:**
```typescript
// Before
const config = {
    fontWeight: 'bold',
    ...baseStyles,
    fontSize: 16,
    color: 'red',
}

// After - spread syntax preserved
const config = {
    color: 'red',
    fontSize: 16,
    fontWeight: 'bold',
    ...baseStyles,  // Spread syntax maintained in position
}
```

**Nested Object Sorting:**
```typescript
// Before
const theme = {
    colors: {
        warning: '#ff9800',
        primary: '#2196f3',
        error: '#f44336',
    },
    spacing: {
        large: 24,
        small: 8,
        medium: 16,
    },
}

// After (with nested sorting enabled)
const theme = {
    colors: {
        error: '#f44336',
        primary: '#2196f3',
        warning: '#ff9800',
    },
    spacing: {
        large: 24,
        medium: 16,
        small: 8,
    },
}
```

### CSS/SCSS/SASS/LESS

**CSS Property Sorting with Vendor Prefixes:**
```css
/* Before */
.button {
    z-index: 10;
    background: blue;
    -webkit-transform: rotate(45deg);
    -moz-transform: rotate(45deg);
    transform: rotate(45deg);
    color: white !important;
    border: none;
}

/* After */
.button {
    background: blue;
    border: none;
    color: white !important;
    -moz-transform: rotate(45deg);
    -webkit-transform: rotate(45deg);
    transform: rotate(45deg);
    z-index: 10;
}
```

**SCSS Nested Rules:**
```scss
// Before
.card {
    z-index: 1;
    background: white;
    border: 1px solid gray;
    
    &:hover {
        background: lightgray;
        cursor: pointer;
    }
    
    .title {
        font-weight: bold;
        color: black;
        font-size: 18px;
    }
}

// After
.card {
    background: white;
    border: 1px solid gray;
    z-index: 1;
    
    &:hover {
        background: lightgray;
        cursor: pointer;
    }
    
    .title {
        color: black;
        font-size: 18px;
        font-weight: bold;
    }
}
```

**SASS Indented Syntax:**
```sass
// Before
.button
  z-index: 10
  background: blue
  color: white
  border: none

// After
.button
  background: blue
  border: none
  color: white
  z-index: 10
```

### Go

**Go Struct Sorting with Tag Preservation:**
```go
// Before
type User struct {
    // User's email address
    Email string `json:"email" validate:"required,email"`
    // User's unique identifier
    ID int `json:"id" db:"user_id"`
    // User's full name
    Name string `json:"name" validate:"required"`
    // User's age
    Age int `json:"age" validate:"min=0,max=150"`
}

// After
type User struct {
    // User's age
    Age int `json:"age" validate:"min=0,max=150"`
    // User's email address
    Email string `json:"email" validate:"required,email"`
    // User's unique identifier
    ID int `json:"id" db:"user_id"`
    // User's full name
    Name string `json:"name" validate:"required"`
}
```

**Embedded Fields and Complex Tags:**
```go
// Before
type Order struct {
    ID string `json:"id" db:"order_id,primary_key"`
    User
    Total int `json:"total" validate:"min=0"`
    Address
    CreatedAt time.Time `json:"created_at" db:"created_at"`
}

// After
type Order struct {
    Address
    CreatedAt time.Time `json:"created_at" db:"created_at"`
    ID string `json:"id" db:"order_id,primary_key"`
    Total int `json:"total" validate:"min=0"`
    User
}
```

### JSON

**Package.json Sorting:**
```json
// Before
{
    "scripts": {
        "test": "npm run compile && node ./out/test/runTest.js",
        "compile": "tsc -p ./"
    },
    "name": "bulk-property-sorter",
    "version": "0.5.1",
    "description": "Sort properties in TypeScript interfaces, objects, and more",
    "main": "./out/extension.js",
    "engines": {
        "vscode": "^1.83.0"
    }
}

// After
{
    "description": "Sort properties in TypeScript interfaces, objects, and more",
    "engines": {
        "vscode": "^1.83.0"
    },
    "main": "./out/extension.js",
    "name": "bulk-property-sorter",
    "scripts": {
        "compile": "tsc -p ./",
        "test": "npm run compile && node ./out/test/runTest.js"
    },
    "version": "0.5.1"
}
```

**Configuration Files with Custom Key Order:**
```json
// Before
{
    "dependencies": {
        "react": "^18.0.0",
        "typescript": "^4.9.0"
    },
    "name": "my-app",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "A sample application"
}

// After (with custom key order: name, version, description)
{
    "name": "my-app",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "A sample application",
    "dependencies": {
        "react": "^18.0.0",
        "typescript": "^4.9.0"
    }
}
```

**API Response JSON:**
```json
// Before
{
    "meta": {
        "version": "v1",
        "timestamp": "2023-12-01T10:00:00Z"
    },
    "data": {
        "users": [
            {
                "profile": {
                    "lastName": "Doe",
                    "firstName": "John"
                },
                "email": "john@example.com",
                "id": 1,
                "username": "john_doe"
            }
        ]
    },
    "status": "success"
}

// After (with nested sorting enabled)
{
    "data": {
        "users": [
            {
                "email": "john@example.com",
                "id": 1,
                "profile": {
                    "firstName": "John",
                    "lastName": "Doe"
                },
                "username": "john_doe"
            }
        ]
    },
    "meta": {
        "timestamp": "2023-12-01T10:00:00Z",
        "version": "v1"
    },
    "status": "success"
}
```

**JSONC (JSON with Comments) Support:**
```jsonc
// Before
{
    // Application configuration
    "database": {
        "port": 5432,
        "host": "localhost" // Default database host
    },
    "cache": {
        "redis": {
            "url": "redis://localhost:6379"
        }
    },
    /* 
     * Application metadata
     */
    "name": "my-api",
    "version": "1.0.0"
}

// After (comments preserved with their properties)
{
    /* 
     * Application metadata
     */
    "cache": {
        "redis": {
            "url": "redis://localhost:6379"
        }
    },
    // Application configuration
    "database": {
        "host": "localhost", // Default database host
        "port": 5432
    },
    "name": "my-api",
    "version": "1.0.0"
}
```

**Array Order Preservation:**
```json
// Before (arrays preserve order by default)
{
    "steps": [
        "compile",
        "test",
        "deploy"
    ],
    "environments": ["dev", "staging", "prod"]
}

// After (array elements maintain their original order)
{
    "environments": ["dev", "staging", "prod"],
    "steps": [
        "compile",
        "test", 
        "deploy"
    ]
}
```

### YAML

**Kubernetes Manifest Sorting with Custom Key Order:**
```yaml
# Before
spec:
  containers:
    - name: app
      image: nginx:latest
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
          protocol: TCP
metadata:
  name: my-pod
  labels:
    app: web
    version: v1
kind: Pod
apiVersion: v1

# After (with Kubernetes key order: apiVersion, kind, metadata, spec)
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  labels:
    app: web
    version: v1
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
    - image: nginx:latest
      name: app
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
          protocol: TCP
```

**Docker Compose File Sorting:**
```yaml
# Before
version: '3.8'
services:
  web:
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    image: nginx:latest
    environment:
      - NODE_ENV=production
    depends_on:
      - db
  db:
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
    image: postgres:13
    environment:
      POSTGRES_DB: myapp
      POSTGRES_USER: user
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: password

# After (with nested sorting enabled)
services:
  db:
    environment:
      POSTGRES_DB: myapp
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: password
      POSTGRES_USER: user
    image: postgres:13
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
  web:
    depends_on:
      - db
    environment:
      - NODE_ENV=production
    image: nginx:latest
    ports:
      - "80:80"
version: '3.8'
```

**Configuration File with Comments:**
```yaml
# Before
# Application configuration
database:
  # Database connection settings
  host: localhost
  port: 5432
  name: myapp
logging:
  # Logging configuration
  level: info
  format: json
app:
  # Application settings
  name: MyApp
  version: 1.0.0
  debug: false

# After (with comment preservation)
app:
  # Application settings
  debug: false
  name: MyApp
  version: 1.0.0
database:
  # Database connection settings
  host: localhost
  name: myapp
  port: 5432
logging:
  # Logging configuration
  format: json
  level: info
```

**Multi-Document YAML:**
```yaml
# Before
---
# Kubernetes Pod manifest
spec:
  containers:
    - name: web-server
      image: nginx:1.20
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
metadata:
  name: web-pod
  labels:
    environment: production
    app: web
kind: Pod
apiVersion: v1
---
# Kubernetes Service manifest  
spec:
  selector:
    app: web
  ports:
    - port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  type: ClusterIP
metadata:
  name: web-service
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1

# After (properties sorted within each document)
---
# Kubernetes Pod manifest
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  labels:
    app: web
    environment: production
  name: web-pod
spec:
  containers:
    - image: nginx:1.20
      name: web-server
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
---
# Kubernetes Service manifest
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: web-service
spec:
  ports:
    - port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  selector:
    app: web
  type: ClusterIP
```

**YAML with Anchors and Aliases:**
```yaml
# Before
service:
  <<: *defaults
  name: api
  port: 3000
defaults: &defaults
  timeout: 30
  retries: 3
  memory: 512Mi

# After (with anchor/alias preservation)
defaults: &defaults
  memory: 512Mi
  retries: 3
  timeout: 30
service:
  <<: *defaults
  name: api
  port: 3000
```

## Configuration

## Supported File Types

- **TypeScript**: `.ts`, `.tsx` - Interfaces, type aliases, object literals, class members
- **JavaScript**: `.js`, `.jsx` - Object literals, class members
- **CSS**: `.css` - CSS rules, properties, media queries
- **SCSS**: `.scss` - Nested rules, variables, mixins
- **SASS**: `.sass` - Indented syntax support
- **LESS**: `.less` - Variables, mixins, nested rules
- **JSON**: `.json`, `.jsonc` - Object properties, configuration files, API responses
- **Go**: `.go` - Struct definitions with field sorting

## Commands

- **Sort Properties** (`bulk-property-sorter.sortProperties`) 
  - **Shortcut**: `Ctrl+[` / `Cmd+[`
  - Sort properties in ascending order (A-Z)

- **Sort Properties Descending** (`bulk-property-sorter.sortPropertiesDescending`)
  - **Shortcut**: `Ctrl+Shift+[` / `Cmd+Shift+[`
  - Sort properties in descending order (Z-A)

Both commands work on the entire file or just the selected text if you have a selection.

### Context Menu

Context menu items are automatically shown only for supported file types (TypeScript, JavaScript, CSS, SCSS, SASS, LESS, Go, JSON, and YAML files). By default, only the "Sort Properties" command appears in the right-click context menu for a cleaner interface. To show the "Sort Properties Descending" option in the context menu as well, enable the `bulk-property-sorter.showDescendingOption` setting in your VS Code preferences.

**Note:** Keyboard shortcuts for both commands remain available regardless of the context menu visibility setting.

## Language-Specific Features

### TypeScript/JavaScript
- Interface and type alias sorting
- Object literal property sorting
- Optional property handling (`property?: type`)
- Method signature sorting in interfaces
- Nested object recursive sorting
- Export detection and preservation
- Spread syntax preservation

### CSS/SCSS/SASS/LESS
- Property sorting with vendor prefix intelligence
- Media query and keyframe handling
- Nested rule sorting (SCSS/SASS/LESS)
- Comment preservation with property association
- `!important` declaration handling
- CSS variable grouping
- Format-specific reconstruction (indented SASS, etc.)

### Go
- Struct field sorting with multiple strategies
- Struct tag preservation (complex tags with multiple key-value pairs)
- Embedded/anonymous field support
- Export status recognition (capitalized vs lowercase)
- Comment association and preservation
- Multiple struct processing in single files

### JSON
- Object property sorting with alphabetical ordering
- Array order preservation (configurable)
- Nested object recursive sorting
- JSONC comment preservation (single-line and multi-line)
- Custom key ordering for specific JSON schemas
- Schema-based property grouping (metadata, required, optional)
- Package.json and configuration file optimization
- API response and data structure sorting
- Support for both standard JSON and JSONC formats

## Known Issues

- Complex nested structures with mixed content types may require manual review
- Some edge cases with malformed syntax may not be handled gracefully

## Contributing

This extension is maintained by Spectro Cloud. Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome at the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/bulk-property-sorter).

## License

This extension is licensed under the MIT License. See the repository for full license details.

Commit message:

feat: convert from bulk-property-sorter to spectro-tab-tools

README.md, after:

# Spectro Tab Tools

A VS Code extension that provides 

## Features

## Installation

1. Open VS Code, Cursor, or any other editor that supports VS Code extensions
2. Go to Extensions (Ctrl+Shift+X)
3. Search for "Spectro Tab Tools"
4. Click Install
5. ???
6. Profit!

## Usage

1. Open a supported file type (TypeScript, JavaScript, CSS, SCSS, SASS, LESS, JSON, YAML, or Go)
2. Either:
   - Select specific text to sort just that selection
   - Place cursor anywhere to sort the entire file
3. Use one of these methods:
   - Press `Ctrl+[` (or `Cmd+[` on Mac) for ascending sort
   - Press `Ctrl+Shift+[` (or `Cmd+Shift+[` on Mac) for descending sort
   - Right-click and select "Sort Properties" from the context menu (only appears for supported file types)
   - Open Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P`) and search for "Sort Properties"

## Requirements

- VS Code, Cursor, or any other editor that supports VS Code extensions
- Files must be in a supported language (TypeScript, JavaScript, CSS, SCSS, SASS, LESS, JSON, YAML, Go)

## Detailed Architecture Overview

See [docs/spectro-tab-tools.md](docs/spectro-tab-tools.md) for detailed architectural diagrams and information.

## Examples

### TypeScript/JavaScript

**Basic Interface Sorting:**
```typescript
// Before
interface User {
    name: string;
    age: number;
    email: string;
}

// After
interface User {
    age: number;
    email: string;
    name: string;
}
```

**Comment Preservation:**
```typescript
// Before
interface User {
    // User's full name
    name: string;
    age: number;
    /**
     * Contact email address
     */
    email: string;
}

// After
interface User {
    age: number;
    /**
     * Contact email address
     */
    email: string;
    // User's full name
    name: string;
}
```

**Semicolon Preservation** - maintains original trailing punctuation style:
```typescript
// Before - mixed punctuation styles
interface Config {
    theme: string;
    version: number
    enabled: boolean;
}

// After - original punctuation preserved during sorting
interface Config {
    enabled: boolean;
    theme: string;
    version: number
}
```

**Object Literals with Spread Syntax:**
```typescript
// Before
const config = {
    fontWeight: 'bold',
    ...baseStyles,
    fontSize: 16,
    color: 'red',
}

// After - spread syntax preserved
const config = {
    color: 'red',
    fontSize: 16,
    fontWeight: 'bold',
    ...baseStyles,  // Spread syntax maintained in position
}
```

**Nested Object Sorting:**
```typescript
// Before
const theme = {
    colors: {
        warning: '#ff9800',
        primary: '#2196f3',
        error: '#f44336',
    },
    spacing: {
        large: 24,
        small: 8,
        medium: 16,
    },
}

// After (with nested sorting enabled)
const theme = {
    colors: {
        error: '#f44336',
        primary: '#2196f3',
        warning: '#ff9800',
    },
    spacing: {
        large: 24,
        medium: 16,
        small: 8,
    },
}
```

### CSS/SCSS/SASS/LESS

**CSS Property Sorting with Vendor Prefixes:**
```css
/* Before */
.button {
    z-index: 10;
    background: blue;
    -webkit-transform: rotate(45deg);
    -moz-transform: rotate(45deg);
    transform: rotate(45deg);
    color: white !important;
    border: none;
}

/* After */
.button {
    background: blue;
    border: none;
    color: white !important;
    -moz-transform: rotate(45deg);
    -webkit-transform: rotate(45deg);
    transform: rotate(45deg);
    z-index: 10;
}
```

**SCSS Nested Rules:**
```scss
// Before
.card {
    z-index: 1;
    background: white;
    border: 1px solid gray;
    
    &:hover {
        background: lightgray;
        cursor: pointer;
    }
    
    .title {
        font-weight: bold;
        color: black;
        font-size: 18px;
    }
}

// After
.card {
    background: white;
    border: 1px solid gray;
    z-index: 1;
    
    &:hover {
        background: lightgray;
        cursor: pointer;
    }
    
    .title {
        color: black;
        font-size: 18px;
        font-weight: bold;
    }
}
```

**SASS Indented Syntax:**
```sass
// Before
.button
  z-index: 10
  background: blue
  color: white
  border: none

// After
.button
  background: blue
  border: none
  color: white
  z-index: 10
```

### Go

**Go Struct Sorting with Tag Preservation:**
```go
// Before
type User struct {
    // User's email address
    Email string `json:"email" validate:"required,email"`
    // User's unique identifier
    ID int `json:"id" db:"user_id"`
    // User's full name
    Name string `json:"name" validate:"required"`
    // User's age
    Age int `json:"age" validate:"min=0,max=150"`
}

// After
type User struct {
    // User's age
    Age int `json:"age" validate:"min=0,max=150"`
    // User's email address
    Email string `json:"email" validate:"required,email"`
    // User's unique identifier
    ID int `json:"id" db:"user_id"`
    // User's full name
    Name string `json:"name" validate:"required"`
}
```

**Embedded Fields and Complex Tags:**
```go
// Before
type Order struct {
    ID string `json:"id" db:"order_id,primary_key"`
    User
    Total int `json:"total" validate:"min=0"`
    Address
    CreatedAt time.Time `json:"created_at" db:"created_at"`
}

// After
type Order struct {
    Address
    CreatedAt time.Time `json:"created_at" db:"created_at"`
    ID string `json:"id" db:"order_id,primary_key"`
    Total int `json:"total" validate:"min=0"`
    User
}
```

### JSON

**Package.json Sorting:**
```json
// Before
{
    "scripts": {
        "test": "npm run compile && node ./out/test/runTest.js",
        "compile": "tsc -p ./"
    },
    "name": "spectro-tab-tools",
    "version": "0.5.1",
    "description": "Sort properties in TypeScript interfaces, objects, and more",
    "main": "./out/extension.js",
    "engines": {
        "vscode": "^1.83.0"
    }
}

// After
{
    "description": "Sort properties in TypeScript interfaces, objects, and more",
    "engines": {
        "vscode": "^1.83.0"
    },
    "main": "./out/extension.js",
    "name": "spectro-tab-tools",
    "scripts": {
        "compile": "tsc -p ./",
        "test": "npm run compile && node ./out/test/runTest.js"
    },
    "version": "0.5.1"
}
```

**Configuration Files with Custom Key Order:**
```json
// Before
{
    "dependencies": {
        "react": "^18.0.0",
        "typescript": "^4.9.0"
    },
    "name": "my-app",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "A sample application"
}

// After (with custom key order: name, version, description)
{
    "name": "my-app",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "A sample application",
    "dependencies": {
        "react": "^18.0.0",
        "typescript": "^4.9.0"
    }
}
```

**API Response JSON:**
```json
// Before
{
    "meta": {
        "version": "v1",
        "timestamp": "2023-12-01T10:00:00Z"
    },
    "data": {
        "users": [
            {
                "profile": {
                    "lastName": "Doe",
                    "firstName": "John"
                },
                "email": "john@example.com",
                "id": 1,
                "username": "john_doe"
            }
        ]
    },
    "status": "success"
}

// After (with nested sorting enabled)
{
    "data": {
        "users": [
            {
                "email": "john@example.com",
                "id": 1,
                "profile": {
                    "firstName": "John",
                    "lastName": "Doe"
                },
                "username": "john_doe"
            }
        ]
    },
    "meta": {
        "timestamp": "2023-12-01T10:00:00Z",
        "version": "v1"
    },
    "status": "success"
}
```

**JSONC (JSON with Comments) Support:**
```jsonc
// Before
{
    // Application configuration
    "database": {
        "port": 5432,
        "host": "localhost" // Default database host
    },
    "cache": {
        "redis": {
            "url": "redis://localhost:6379"
        }
    },
    /* 
     * Application metadata
     */
    "name": "my-api",
    "version": "1.0.0"
}

// After (comments preserved with their properties)
{
    /* 
     * Application metadata
     */
    "cache": {
        "redis": {
            "url": "redis://localhost:6379"
        }
    },
    // Application configuration
    "database": {
        "host": "localhost", // Default database host
        "port": 5432
    },
    "name": "my-api",
    "version": "1.0.0"
}
```

**Array Order Preservation:**
```json
// Before (arrays preserve order by default)
{
    "steps": [
        "compile",
        "test",
        "deploy"
    ],
    "environments": ["dev", "staging", "prod"]
}

// After (array elements maintain their original order)
{
    "environments": ["dev", "staging", "prod"],
    "steps": [
        "compile",
        "test", 
        "deploy"
    ]
}
```

### YAML

**Kubernetes Manifest Sorting with Custom Key Order:**
```yaml
# Before
spec:
  containers:
    - name: app
      image: nginx:latest
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
          protocol: TCP
metadata:
  name: my-pod
  labels:
    app: web
    version: v1
kind: Pod
apiVersion: v1

# After (with Kubernetes key order: apiVersion, kind, metadata, spec)
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  labels:
    app: web
    version: v1
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
    - image: nginx:latest
      name: app
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
          protocol: TCP
```

**Docker Compose File Sorting:**
```yaml
# Before
version: '3.8'
services:
  web:
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    image: nginx:latest
    environment:
      - NODE_ENV=production
    depends_on:
      - db
  db:
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
    image: postgres:13
    environment:
      POSTGRES_DB: myapp
      POSTGRES_USER: user
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: password

# After (with nested sorting enabled)
services:
  db:
    environment:
      POSTGRES_DB: myapp
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: password
      POSTGRES_USER: user
    image: postgres:13
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
  web:
    depends_on:
      - db
    environment:
      - NODE_ENV=production
    image: nginx:latest
    ports:
      - "80:80"
version: '3.8'
```

**Configuration File with Comments:**
```yaml
# Before
# Application configuration
database:
  # Database connection settings
  host: localhost
  port: 5432
  name: myapp
logging:
  # Logging configuration
  level: info
  format: json
app:
  # Application settings
  name: MyApp
  version: 1.0.0
  debug: false

# After (with comment preservation)
app:
  # Application settings
  debug: false
  name: MyApp
  version: 1.0.0
database:
  # Database connection settings
  host: localhost
  name: myapp
  port: 5432
logging:
  # Logging configuration
  format: json
  level: info
```

**Multi-Document YAML:**
```yaml
# Before
---
# Kubernetes Pod manifest
spec:
  containers:
    - name: web-server
      image: nginx:1.20
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
metadata:
  name: web-pod
  labels:
    environment: production
    app: web
kind: Pod
apiVersion: v1
---
# Kubernetes Service manifest  
spec:
  selector:
    app: web
  ports:
    - port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  type: ClusterIP
metadata:
  name: web-service
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1

# After (properties sorted within each document)
---
# Kubernetes Pod manifest
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  labels:
    app: web
    environment: production
  name: web-pod
spec:
  containers:
    - image: nginx:1.20
      name: web-server
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
---
# Kubernetes Service manifest
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: web-service
spec:
  ports:
    - port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  selector:
    app: web
  type: ClusterIP
```

**YAML with Anchors and Aliases:**
```yaml
# Before
service:
  <<: *defaults
  name: api
  port: 3000
defaults: &defaults
  timeout: 30
  retries: 3
  memory: 512Mi

# After (with anchor/alias preservation)
defaults: &defaults
  memory: 512Mi
  retries: 3
  timeout: 30
service:
  <<: *defaults
  name: api
  port: 3000
```

## Configuration

## Supported File Types

- **TypeScript**: `.ts`, `.tsx` - Interfaces, type aliases, object literals, class members
- **JavaScript**: `.js`, `.jsx` - Object literals, class members
- **CSS**: `.css` - CSS rules, properties, media queries
- **SCSS**: `.scss` - Nested rules, variables, mixins
- **SASS**: `.sass` - Indented syntax support
- **LESS**: `.less` - Variables, mixins, nested rules
- **JSON**: `.json`, `.jsonc` - Object properties, configuration files, API responses
- **Go**: `.go` - Struct definitions with field sorting

## Commands

- **Sort Properties** (`spectro-tab-tools.sortProperties`) 
  - **Shortcut**: `Ctrl+[` / `Cmd+[`
  - Sort properties in ascending order (A-Z)

- **Sort Properties Descending** (`spectro-tab-tools.sortPropertiesDescending`)
  - **Shortcut**: `Ctrl+Shift+[` / `Cmd+Shift+[`
  - Sort properties in descending order (Z-A)

Both commands work on the entire file or just the selected text if you have a selection.

### Context Menu

Context menu items are automatically shown only for supported file types (TypeScript, JavaScript, CSS, SCSS, SASS, LESS, Go, JSON, and YAML files). By default, only the "Sort Properties" command appears in the right-click context menu for a cleaner interface. To show the "Sort Properties Descending" option in the context menu as well, enable the `spectro-tab-tools.showDescendingOption` setting in your VS Code preferences.

**Note:** Keyboard shortcuts for both commands remain available regardless of the context menu visibility setting.

## Language-Specific Features

### TypeScript/JavaScript
- Interface and type alias sorting
- Object literal property sorting
- Optional property handling (`property?: type`)
- Method signature sorting in interfaces
- Nested object recursive sorting
- Export detection and preservation
- Spread syntax preservation

### CSS/SCSS/SASS/LESS
- Property sorting with vendor prefix intelligence
- Media query and keyframe handling
- Nested rule sorting (SCSS/SASS/LESS)
- Comment preservation with property association
- `!important` declaration handling
- CSS variable grouping
- Format-specific reconstruction (indented SASS, etc.)

### Go
- Struct field sorting with multiple strategies
- Struct tag preservation (complex tags with multiple key-value pairs)
- Embedded/anonymous field support
- Export status recognition (capitalized vs lowercase)
- Comment association and preservation
- Multiple struct processing in single files

### JSON
- Object property sorting with alphabetical ordering
- Array order preservation (configurable)
- Nested object recursive sorting
- JSONC comment preservation (single-line and multi-line)
- Custom key ordering for specific JSON schemas
- Schema-based property grouping (metadata, required, optional)
- Package.json and configuration file optimization
- API response and data structure sorting
- Support for both standard JSON and JSONC formats

## Known Issues

- Complex nested structures with mixed content types may require manual review
- Some edge cases with malformed syntax may not be handled gracefully

## Contributing

This extension is maintained by Spectro Cloud. Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome at the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/spectro-tab-tools).

## License

This extension is licensed under the MIT License. See the repository for full license details.
